---
layout: post
title: "ASHA inter faith conference issues joint statement"
date: 2025-05-27
---

*Bath inter faith group, represented by Matt McCabe and William Heath, was among two dozen organisations participating in a conference considering the national future of inter faith work. The event was held at the ASHA centre in the Forest of Dean. The organisers issued this press release.* 

Last week 32 senior representatives of local, regional and national interfaith organisations across England gathered in the Forest of Dean in rural Gloucestershire to plot a new course for interfaith dialogue in the country. The two-day conference was hosted by the human rights campaigner and author Zerbanoo Gifford at the ASHA Centre, which she founded. The Centre is an international charity offering wellbeing retreats, training of interfaith ministers and young leaders, and a platform for reconciliation and dialogue.

The Interfaith Conference came in the context of heightened tensions between different faith groups in Britain, exacerbated by conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere. The closure of the Inter Faith Network for the UK has also left many involved in interfaith work feeling disheartened and isolated. There has been a particular question mark over the future of Inter Faith Week, an annual focus for inter faith dialogue and social action occurring every November: the Faith & Belief Forum recently led a government-funded consultation exercise on the future of the Week.

A strong sense of opportunity and new energy emerged during the Conference, and the well evidenced view was expressed that people of faith working together have the power to change things. Among the specific conclusions reached was that there should be a National Steering Group to oversee Inter Faith Week; that it was essential for the interfaith sector to speak with one voice when dealing with Government; and that local interfaith groups could do much more to share good practice and offer mutual support. The group committed to using its best efforts to make Inter Faith Week 2025 a success, and to continuing to work together.

ASHA Centre Founder, Zerbanoo Gifford, said: “It was an honour to personally host and help reenergise England’s interfaith movement, and to see so many of those that work tirelessly at the grassroots taking part. Today the movement has a new home at the ASHA Centre: a place where those who bravely and generously work to end mistrust and misunderstanding of ‘the other’ can find the collective strength to continue their timely and important work.”   

Conference organiser Warwick Hawkins said: “My company Faith in Society was honoured to be asked to organise this conference. Interfaith activity in the UK is at something of a crossroads, and everyone involved was pleased to be able to help chart its future course in such a beautiful and inspiring setting.”

[ASHA centre](https://ashacentre.org/)

[Faith in Society](https://faithinsociety.org.uk/)



