---
layout: post
title: "Bath Abbey celebrates appointment of new Missioner Betsy Blatchley"
date: 2025-07-08
---


On 6 July the unmistakeable strains of Mission Impossible rang out loud and proud on the splendid organ in Bath Abbey. Not a tribute to the composer Lalo Schifrin - who died earlier that week -  but a light-hearted reference by the Bishop of Bath & Wells Michael Beasley to the role of Betsy Blatchley as newly appointed Missioner. A former National Theatre producer, Betsy comes to Bath from the diocese of Southwark in London, where her role was Pioneer Minister in the Arts in Nine Elms.

It was a reminder that no other local institution in Bath celebrates or does ceremonial quite like the Abbey. People get new jobs all the time but this was the most public, demonstrative and aesthetically ambitious celebration imaginable of an important new role in our community. 

In his sermon Bishop Michael stressed Bath Abbey's mission priorities. As well as to share the good news and nurture new believers this means 
- to respond to human need with loving service
- to transform unjust structures and challenge violence, and 
- to strive to safeguard the integrity of creation. 

These last three are ambitions the Abbey shares with all people of good faith in Bath, on which we can work together.

As we celebrate the diversity of faiths and religions in Bath we include the Abbey which sits at the heart of our community, with its architecture, music and traditions. The Bath IFG looks forward to working with Betsy Blatchley, with her experience of working among diverse communities in Battersea, as we increaseharmony between people of different faiths and develop the voice of faith in Bath. 
